README.md, before:

This is a [Next.js](https://nextjs.org) project bootstrapped with [`create-next-app`](https://nextjs.org/docs/app/api-reference/cli/create-next-app).

## Getting Started

First, run the development server:

```bash
npm run dev
# or
yarn dev
# or
pnpm dev
# or
bun dev
```

Open [http://localhost:3000](http://localhost:3000) with your browser to see the result.

You can start editing the page by modifying `app/page.tsx`. The page auto-updates as you edit the file.

This project uses [`next/font`](https://nextjs.org/docs/app/building-your-application/optimizing/fonts) to automatically optimize and load [Geist](https://vercel.com/font), a new font family for Vercel.

## Learn More

To learn more about Next.js, take a look at the following resources:

- [Next.js Documentation](https://nextjs.org/docs) - learn about Next.js features and API.
- [Learn Next.js](https://nextjs.org/learn) - an interactive Next.js tutorial.

You can check out [the Next.js GitHub repository](https://github.com/vercel/next.js) - your feedback and contributions are welcome!

## Deploy on Vercel

The easiest way to deploy your Next.js app is to use the [Vercel Platform](https://vercel.com/new?utm_medium=default-template&filter=next.js&utm_source=create-next-app&utm_campaign=create-next-app-readme) from the creators of Next.js.

Check out our [Next.js deployment documentation](https://nextjs.org/docs/app/building-your-application/deploying) for more details.

---

**Build Status**: Fixed Prisma Client generation issue for Vercel deployment (Updated: $(date))

Commit message:

� Enhanced all 50 professional user profiles with comprehensive data
✅ Profile Enhancement Complete:
- � Real addresses & GPS coordinates from original site
- � Professional phone numbers and website URLs
- � Rich descriptions with equipment details
- � Connection services (ISDN, Source Connect, Zoom, Teams)
- ✅ Professional verification status
- � Studio type classifications

� Database Status:
- 51 professional users imported
- 50 complete studio profiles with real-world data
- 10+ professional images uploaded to Cloudinary
- Comprehensive service listings

� Technical Improvements:
- Fixed Decimal serialization for latitude/longitude
- Enhanced import scripts with proper error handling
- Build verification successful - ready for deployment
- Removed unused imports and fixed TypeScript errors

The homepage now displays authentic, professional studio listings!

README.md, after:

This is a [Next.js](https://nextjs.org) project bootstrapped with [`create-next-app`](https://nextjs.org/docs/app/api-reference/cli/create-next-app).

## Getting Started

First, run the development server:

```bash
npm run dev
# or
yarn dev
# or
pnpm dev
# or
bun dev
```

Open [http://localhost:3000](http://localhost:3000) with your browser to see the result.

You can start editing the page by modifying `app/page.tsx`. The page auto-updates as you edit the file.

This project uses [`next/font`](https://nextjs.org/docs/app/building-your-application/optimizing/fonts) to automatically optimize and load [Geist](https://vercel.com/font), a new font family for Vercel.

## Learn More

To learn more about Next.js, take a look at the following resources:

- [Next.js Documentation](https://nextjs.org/docs) - learn about Next.js features and API.
- [Learn Next.js](https://nextjs.org/learn) - an interactive Next.js tutorial.

You can check out [the Next.js GitHub repository](https://github.com/vercel/next.js) - your feedback and contributions are welcome!

## Deploy on Vercel

The easiest way to deploy your Next.js app is to use the [Vercel Platform](https://vercel.com/new?utm_medium=default-template&filter=next.js&utm_source=create-next-app&utm_campaign=create-next-app-readme) from the creators of Next.js.

Check out our [Next.js deployment documentation](https://nextjs.org/docs/app/building-your-application/deploying) for more details.

---

**Build Status**: Enhanced all 50 professional user profiles with comprehensive data from original site - Build verified successful (Updated: $(date))

## 🎉 **Recent Major Update**

Successfully enhanced all **50 professional user profiles** with comprehensive data from the original VoiceoverStudioFinder site:

### ✅ **Profile Enhancements:**
- **📍 Real Addresses & GPS Coordinates** - Actual studio locations with precise mapping
- **📞 Professional Contact Information** - Direct phone numbers and website URLs  
- **🎯 Rich Descriptions** - Detailed equipment lists and professional service descriptions
- **🔗 Connection Services** - ISDN, Source Connect, Zoom, Teams, and specialized audio connections
- **✅ Verification Status** - Professional verification badges from original site
- **🏢 Studio Classifications** - Home, Recording, Mobile, and Production studio types

### 📊 **Database Status:**
- **51 Professional Users** imported with authentic profiles
- **50 Complete Studio Profiles** with real-world data
- **10+ Professional Images** uploaded to Cloudinary CDN
- **Comprehensive Service Listings** with connection types and rates

The homepage now displays authentic, professional studio listings that give visitors confidence in the platform's credibility and quality!
